# Multifactor authentication

## What is multifactor authentication?

By means of multifactor authentication, you can save the login – in addition to the password – with
a further factor. Setting up a multifactor authentication can be done by either the administrator or
the user.

## Requirements

To use multifactor authentication on a database, it must firstly have been activated on the Server
Manager. In the database module, open the settings for the selected database via the ribbon.

![database settings](/img/versioned_docs/passwordsecure_9.1/passwordsecure/configuration/advanced_view/clientmodule/organisationalstructures/multifactorauthentication/multifactor_authentication_1-en.webp)

It is possible to separately define in the settings whether it is permitted to use each interface on
the database.

![multifactor authentication](/img/versioned_docs/passwordsecure_9.1/passwordsecure/configuration/advanced_view/clientmodule/organisationalstructures/multifactorauthentication/multifactor_authentication_2-en.webp)

### Other settings

In the user settings, it is also possible to define the "Length of validity of a multifactor
authentication token" in minutes.

NOTE: In order for a user (administrator) to be able to **configure** multifactor authentication for
other users, the user must have the rights **read**, **write**, **delete** and **authorize**. It is
important that these rights exist before Multifactor Authentication is set up.

## Configuration of multifactor authentication

In the
[Organisational structure](/docs/passwordsecure/9.1/user-guides/organizational-structure/managing-users.md)
module, you select the user and the interface "Multifactor authentication" in the ribbon.

![TOTP](/img/versioned_docs/passwordsecure_9.1/passwordsecure/configuration/advanced_view/clientmodule/organisationalstructures/multifactorauthentication/multifactor_authentication_3-en.webp)

The desired type of authentication is selected and given a title. This name is also displayed to the
user when logging in. The subsequent process differs depending on the desired authentication type.

### Google authenticator

The prerequisite for this is that the relevant app has been started on a smartphone. After the name
has been assigned for the authentication, you generate a new secret via the corresponding button. A
QR code is displayed, which must be scanned using the Google Authenticator app on a smartphone.

![google authenticator](/img/versioned_docs/passwordsecure_9.1/passwordsecure/configuration/advanced_view/clientmodule/organisationalstructures/multifactorauthentication/multifactor_authentication_4-en.webp)

Once the Google Authenticator app has detected the QR code, it will return a 6-digit PIN. You must
then enter it in the appropriate field. Finally, click on **Create** in the ribbon.

## RSA SecurID Token

To set up multifactor authentication using RSA SecurID, simply enter the RSA user name and click
**Create** directly in the ribbon.

![RSA SecurID Token](/img/versioned_docs/passwordsecure_9.1/passwordsecure/configuration/advanced_view/clientmodule/organisationalstructures/multifactorauthentication/multifactor_authentication_5-en.webp)

NOTE: The prerequisite for the use of RSA SecurID token is that the access data has been stored in
the Database settings on the Server Manager.

## Public key infrastructure

For PKI setup, the **Select** button is used to open the menu for selecting the desired certificate.
All eligible certificates are displayed.

![Public key infrastructure](/img/versioned_docs/passwordsecure_9.1/passwordsecure/configuration/advanced_view/clientmodule/organisationalstructures/multifactorauthentication/multifactor_authentication_7-en.webp)

Now just select the desired certificate from the list to confirm the process.

## Yubico One Time Password

The configuration of multifactor authentication using Yubico One Time Password is described
in[Multifactor Authentication](/docs/passwordsecure/9.1/configuration/authentication/multifactor-authentication/multifactor-overview.md).

## Delete Multifactor Authentication (MFA)

The multifactor authentication can be deleted by the user himself or by another user with sufficient
authorization. The rights **Read**, **Write**, **Authorize** and **Delete** are required for another
user to perform the deletion.

In order to delete a file, you should go to the main menu. Under **Account** you will find the item
**Multifactor Authentication**. An alternative way is to enter the management of multifactor
authentication via the organisational structure. To do so, select the corresponding user and click
on the **Multifactor Authentication** ribbon.

In the administration of the multi-factor authentication you will then find in the ribbon the
possibility to delete the stored MFA.

# Multifactor Authentication

## What is multifactor authentication?

Multifactor authentication is used to secure the logon to the by an additional factor. The actual
setup takes place in the client. The configured en can then be used by any user

Activation of different factors

In the Databases module, select a database and open its settings via the ribbon...

![Database settings](/img/versioned_docs/passwordsecure_9.1/passwordsecure/configuration/server_manager/managing_databases/database_settings/mfa-de.webp)

In the settings you define which second factors can be used.

NOTE: If you want to use "Encipherment" for PKI certificates without KeyUsageFlag, uncheck the
corresponding checkbox.
