# Managing users

## How are users managed in Netwrix Password Secure?

The way in which users are managed is highly dependent on whether Active Directory is connected or
not. In Master Key mode, Active Directory remains the leading system. Accordingly, users are then
also managed in the AD. If Netwrix Password Secure is the leading system, e.g. in end-to-end mode,
users are managed in the organisational structures module. More details are provided in the relevant
sections.

## Relevant rights

The following options are required to add local users.

### User rights

Can add new users -Display organisational structure module

## Adding local users

In general, new users are added in the same way as creating a local organisational unit. Therefore,
only the differences will be covered below.

### Creating users

![create user](/img/product_docs/passwordsecure/9.2/configuration/advanced_view/clientmodule/organisationalstructures/managingusers/create-user-wc.webp)

- **Allocated roles**: New users can directly be allocated one or more rolls when they are created
- **Change password on next login**: The user will be requested to change their user password on the
  next login (obligatory)
- **Account is deactivated**: The user is created with the status "deactivated". The account is thus
  not useable. The write rights for a user can be set/removed with this option. In editing mode, the
  account can also be deactivated during ongoing operation.
- **Restricted user**: Controlling entities exist in many companies that are only tasked with
  checking the integrity and hierarchies of various pieces of information with one another but are
  not required to productively work with the information themselves. This could be a data protection
  officer or also an administrator in some cases. This would be the case if an administrator was
  responsible for issuing permissions to other people but should not be able to view the data
  themselves. The property **restricted user** is used to limit the visibility of the password
  field. It thus deals with purely administrative users or controlling entities.

NOTE: Restricted users cannot view any passwords

### Configuring rights

The second tab of the wizard allows you to define the permissions for the newly created user. If an
allocated organisational unit or a rights template group was defined in the first tab, the new user
will inherit its permissions. Here, these permissions can be adapted if desired.

### Configuring user rights

Users always receive their user rights via role, which is either user-specific or global (see user
rights). If no role is defined in the first tab "Create user", the third tab will thus contain
globally defined user rights.

## Importing users

Importing from Active Directory can be carried out in two ways that are described in a separate
section.

## User licenses

There are two different types of licenses, **Advanced view** and **Basic view** licenses. In all
other editions you can only purchase Advanced view licenses. Please note that licensed Basic view
users are not able to use the Advanced view. However, Advanced view Users can also switch to the
Basic view.

**CAUTION:** For licensing reasons, it is not intended to switch from a Advanced view user to a
Basic view user!

Our sales team will be happy to answer any questions you may have about licensing.

Display data to which the user is authorized In order to display the data to which a user is
authorized, you must right-click on the corresponding user in the organisational structure. In the
context menu that opens, you will find the following options under **displaying data records**:

Password -Documents -Forms -Rolls -Uses -Password Reset -System Tasks -Seal templates

NOTE: All authorizations for a data record are taken into account, regardless of whether you are
authorized by a role or the user.
