# Troubleshoot Connector Jobs

This guide helps understand the behavior of synchronization and provisioning tasks in order to spot
and fix errors.

## Overview

A managed system is synchronized and provisioned to/from Usercube with the following task sequence:

![Synchronization/Provisioning Schema](/img/versioned_docs/identitymanager_6.1/identitymanager/integration-guide/tasks-jobs/how-tos/troubleshoot-connector-jobs/troubleshoot_synchroprovschema.webp)

### Export data

Exporting means that the agent reads the system's data and takes it out to one or several external
files, as tables.

The output is stored in `Temp/ExportOutput`.

In order to spot what was exported or not for the next incremental export, cookie files are stored
in `Temp/ExportCookies`.

[See the details of the export executable `Usercube-Export-Configuration`](/docs/identitymanager/6.1/tools-utilities/cli-reference/configuration-tools.md).

### Prepare synchronization

Preparing the synchronization means that the agent reads the tables, output of the export step, and
produces one file for each association (also named multi-valued navigation property), where the data
is prepared for synchronization.

> For example, the data is sorted according to their primary keys, in order to optimize the
> comparison with the database.

The output is stored in `Work/Collect`, and sent to the server to queue in `Work/Synchronization`.

[See the details of the prepare-synchronization executable `Usercube-Prepare-Synchronization`](/docs/identitymanager/6.1/tools-utilities/cli-reference/index.md).

### Synchronize

Synchronizing means reading the data of the external file, output of the preparation step, and
taking it to Usercube.

This is done by the synchronization executable `Usercube-Synchronize`.

#### Synchronization: build the difference

The server compares the exported files, output of the preparation step, with the previous data of
the system, and with the data contained in the database. Based on this comparison, the changes are
stored in the database.

The output is stored in `UR_ResourceChanges`.

#### Synchronization: finalize

When at least one
[synchronization threshold](/docs/identitymanager/6.1/automation/synchronization/sync-thresholds.md)
is exceeded, the change list can be seen in the **Synchronization Changes** tab, accessible from the
job progress screen.

When the synchronization thresholds are not exceeded, or they are bypassed, the potential
preparatory files are consumed and the changes are applied.

The server updates the values of the properties computed via expressions. A user's history can be
used to view the impact of this step on the properties.

### Apply the policy

Applying the policy means that the server prepares the correlation keys and computes the role model.

Preparing the correlation keys means that the server recomputes the keys that will later link
accounts to their owners. The output is stored in `UP_ResourceCorrelationKeys`.

This is done by the correlation key computation executable `Usercube-Compute-CorrelationKeys`.

Computing the role model means that the server applies all the rules in order to assign accounts and
entitlements to identities.

The assigned accounts and entitlements are stored in `UP_Assigned*`, and can be seen in users'
**View Permissions** tab.

This is done by the role model computation executable `Usercube-Compute-RoleModel`.

### Generate provisioning orders

Generating the provisioning orders means that the server builds JSON files to prepare the execution
of provisioning.

The output is stored in `Work/ProvisioningOrders`.

This is done by the order generation executable `Usercube-Generate-ProvisioningOrders`.

### Provision

Provisioning means that the agent asks the server to send the provisioning orders, in order to read
the orders and actually make modifications to the managed system.

Once consumed, the files are moved to the subfolder `Downloaded`.

This is done by the provisioning executables `Usercube-Fulfill-*`.

In order to test the provisioning step, there is no need relaunching the whole task sequence. You
can, for example, keep a provisioning order from the previous step, and adjusting it before
launching provisioning.

## Troubleshoot

Troubleshoot an error in a connector job by running each step individually until you see something
that you did not expect.
