# Filtering Data

The Data Console can show thousands of records, but only some of them will be of interest to you at
any time. Filters let you focus on the important information.

You can create simple filters by typing values directly into the filter row, or by selecting values
from Filtering by Column Values. More complex filters are created with the Custom Filters and
[Filter Editor](filter_editor.md) windows.

### The Filter Row

The top row in the **Audit Log** and **Users** tabs is called the Filter Row. You can type filter
values directly into this row.

![using_the_data_console_3](../../../../../static/img/product_docs/passwordpolicyenforcer/passwordreset/administration/using_the_data_console_3.webp)

The Filter Row is empty when you first open the Data Console. To create a filter, click the **Filter
Row** in the column you wish to filter. A cursor will appear. Type a value, and then press **ENTER**
or **TAB**.

Click the button to shown an editor or selector that helps you enter a value. Values can include
wildcard characters. Use a ? to match any single character, or a \* to match more than one
character.

![using_the_data_console_4](../../../../../static/img/product_docs/passwordpolicyenforcer/passwordreset/administration/using_the_data_console_4.webp)

The image above shows a filter on the Date, Source, and Source IP columns. Only password reset
events on 2/5/2015 originating from IP addresses starting with 192.168.115 are shown. The small blue
icons in the column headers show which columns have active filters.

**NOTE:** Rows are shown only if they match all filter values (logical AND). Use the custom filter
or the filter editor windows for a logical OR filter.

### Filtering by Column Values

You can also create a filter by selecting values from a list in the column headers.

![using_the_data_console_5](../../../../../static/img/product_docs/passwordpolicyenforcer/passwordreset/administration/using_the_data_console_5.webp)

Hover the mouse pointer over a column header until a small button appears on the right side of the
header.

![using_the_data_console_6](../../../../../static/img/product_docs/passwordpolicyenforcer/passwordreset/administration/using_the_data_console_6.webp)

Click the button to show a list of values in the column.

Select one or more values from the list. Rows that do not match one of the selected values are
hidden.

![using_the_data_console_7](../../../../../static/img/product_docs/passwordpolicyenforcer/passwordreset/administration/using_the_data_console_7.webp)

The list of values for date and date/time columns also includes date ranges such as **Last 7 days**,
**Today**, **Yesterday**, etc.

Click **(All)** to clear the filter and display all values. Click **(Custom...)** to create a custom
filter.

### Custom Filters

Use custom filters to search for partial matches, find a range of values, or to create more complex
filters. Click **(Custom...)** in a column header's value list to create a custom filter.

![using_the_data_console_8](../../../../../static/img/product_docs/passwordpolicyenforcer/passwordreset/administration/using_the_data_console_8.webp)

Custom filters can contain one or two conditions for each column. Select an operator for the first
condition from the drop-down list below the column name. Only relevant operators are shown for each
column.

Type a value for the condition in the text box beside the operator. The text box may have a button
on the right. Click the button to shown an editor or selector that will help you enter a value.
Values can include wildcard characters. Use a ? to match any single character, or a \* to match more
than one character.

Select the **AND** or **OR** operator if the filter will have two conditions. Select **AND** if the
filter should only show rows that meet both conditions. Select **OR** if the filter should show rows
that meet either condition.

Select an operator and value for the second condition, or leave them blank if your filter only has
one condition. Click **OK** to close the Custom Filter window and apply the filter.

**NOTE:** The Filter Editor is shown instead of the Custom Filter window if the current filter is
too complex for the Custom Filter window.

### The Filter and Status Bars

The Status Bar appears at the very bottom of the Data Console. It shows the number of visible
records and the total record count. The Filter Bar appears above the Status Bar, and it shows the
active filter. The button on the right side of the Filter Bar opens the Filter Editor.

![using_the_data_console_11](../../../../../static/img/product_docs/passwordpolicyenforcer/passwordreset/administration/using_the_data_console_11.webp)

A button and a check box appear on the left side of the Filter Bar when a filter is active. Click
the button to clear the filter. Toggle the check box to disable or enable the filter.

![using_the_data_console_12](../../../../../static/img/product_docs/passwordpolicyenforcer/passwordreset/administration/using_the_data_console_12.webp)

A drop-down button appears to the right of the filter. Click it to select a recently used filter.

![using_the_data_console_13](../../../../../static/img/product_docs/passwordpolicyenforcer/passwordreset/administration/using_the_data_console_13.webp)

## Exporting Data

You can export the visible rows to Microsoft Excel, HTML, text, and XML formats.

Follow the steps below to export the visible rows in the current tab.

**Step 1 –** Click the **Audit Log** or **Users** tab.

**Step 2 –** Click the **File** menu, and then click one of the export menu items.

**Step 3 –** Type a filename, and then click **Save**.

**NOTE:** When exporting to Excel, you can choose the file type from the **Export to Excel** window.
The default file type is .xlsx.

## Deleting Users

Users are automatically deleted from Password Reset's database approximately one week after they are
deleted from Active Directory. You can also manually delete users from the Data Console.

Follow the steps below to delete a user.

**Step 1 –** Click the **Users** tab.

**Step 2 –** Select the user(s) you wish to delete.

**Step 3 –** Press the **DELETE** key, and then click **OK**.

**NOTE:** You can still view a user's event history in the **Audit Log** tab after they are deleted
from the **Users** tab.
