# Assigning Policies

Password Policy Enforcer uses policy assignments to decide which policy to enforce for each user.
Domain policies can be assigned to users, groups, and containers (Organizational Units). Local
policies can only be assigned to users. See the
[Domain and Local Policies](/versioned_docs/passwordpolicyenforcer_10.2/password_policy_enforcer/administration/domain_and_local_policies.md)
topic for additional information.

When a policy is assigned to a group, Password Policy Enforcer enforces the policy for all members
of the group as well as any nested groups. For example, if the Helpdesk group is a member of the
Info Tech group, then any policy assigned to the Info Tech group also applies to the members of the
Helpdesk group. If this behavior is not desired, then you can assign a different policy to the
Helpdesk group.

**NOTE:** When a policy is assigned to a container, Password Policy Enforcer enforces the policy for
all users in the container as well as any child containers. For example, if the Helpdesk and
Managers OUs are children of the Info Tech OU, then any policy assigned to the Info Tech OU also
applies to the two child OUs. If this behavior is not desired, then you can assign a different
policy to a child OU.

![managing_policies_3](/img/versioned_docs/passwordpolicyenforcer_10.2/password_policy_enforcer/administration/managing_policies_3.png)

**NOTE:** When a domain policy is assigned to a user or group, Password Policy Enforcer stores the
user or group SID in the configuration. The assignment remains valid even if the user or group is
renamed. When a local policy is assigned to a user, Password Policy Enforcer stores the username in
the configuration. The assignment is invalidated if the user is renamed.

![managing_policies_4](/img/versioned_docs/passwordpolicyenforcer_10.2/password_policy_enforcer/administration/managing_policies_4.png)

## Assign a Password Policy

Follow the steps to assign a password policy.

**Step 1 –** Click the **Policies** item to display the Policies view.

**Step 2 –** Click the desired policy in the right pane of the management console.

**Step 3 –** Click **Properties** in the right pane of the management console.

**Step 4 –** Click the **Assigned To** tab.

**Step 5 –** Click the **Add...** button corresponding to Users, Groups, or Containers /
Organizational Units.

**Step 6 –** Select the desired user, group, or container, then click **OK**.

**Step 7 –** Click **OK** to close the Policy Properties page.

## Remove a Password Policy

Follow the steps to remove a policy assignment.

**Step 1 –** Click the Policies item to display the Policies view.

**Step 2 –** Click the desired policy in the right pane of the management console.

**Step 3 –** Click Properties in the right pane of the management console.

**Step 4 –** Click the Assigned To tab.

**Step 5 –** Select the policy assignment that you wish to remove.

**Step 6 –** Click the appropriate Remove button.

**Step 7 –** Click OK to close the Policy Properties page.

**NOTE:** Different assignment types can be used for a single policy. For example, you may assign
users to a policy by both OU and group at the same time.

## Policy Assignment Conflicts

A policy assignment conflict occurs when more than one policy is assigned to a user. Password Policy
Enforcer can resolve these conflicts and choose one policy for each user.

Password Policy Enforcer first tries to resolve a policy assignment conflict by examining the
assignment type. Assignments by user take precedence over assignments by group, which in turn take
precedence over assignments by container. For example, if Policy A is assigned to a user by group,
and Policy B is assigned to the same user by container, then Password Policy Enforcer will enforce
Policy A because assignments by group take precedence over assignments by container.

If all the policies are assigned to the user by container, then Password Policy Enforcer enforces
the policy that is assigned to the nearest parent container. For example, if Policy A is assigned to
the Users OU, and Policy B is assigned to the Users\Students OU, then Password Policy Enforcer will
enforce Policy B for all users in the Users\Students and Users\Students\Science OUs because it is
the policy assigned to the nearest parent container.

If a policy assignment conflict still exists, then Password Policy Enforcer checks the priority of
each remaining policy, and enforces the policy with the highest priority. See the diagram above for
a diagrammatic representation of this algorithm.

Use the Log tab in the Test Policies page to quickly determine which policy Password Policy Enforcer
will enforce for a particular user.

![managing_policies_5](/img/versioned_docs/passwordpolicyenforcer_10.2/password_policy_enforcer/administration/managing_policies_5.png)
