# Clean up Your Passwords

For a clean relocation of passwords, it is important to clean up all your passwords beforehand. This
means to check which secrets are still up-to-date or if there are any duplicates you can remove
first!

## Transer Data from Your Browser

With Netwrix Password Secure, you now have the right tool to save and manage all your secrets handy
at one place and above all a safe alternative to browser-saved passwords! But how can you now
securely import them to your new solution?

Simply do this:

Step 1 – Every time you login to a website now and your browser wants to autofill, this Password
Secure Pop-up will appear, asking you if you would like to save your secret in Netwrix Password
Secure. Just click **Create new**. See the screenshot below.

![createnew](/img/product_docs/passwordsecure/9.2/enduser/createnew.webp)

Step 2 – Now the Web Application will open and automatically transfer the recognized login data,
including URL to a new data set.

![createpassword](/img/product_docs/passwordsecure/9.2/enduser/createpassword.webp)

Step 3 – Choose an organizational unit in which you want to save it and give your new data set a
meaningful name to find it again quickly. (You now also have the option to add further information
and tags.) Now click **Save**. See the box to the right of Organizational unit in the screenshot
above.

## Check for Weak Passwords

Your passwords do not automatically become secure after they have been transferred to Netwrix
Password Secure. No matter how well protected a password is - if it is easy for a hacker to guess,
they don't need access to the password manager to use it. This is why our solution automatically
checks the strength of your password and much more.

Step 1 – Paste your password in the password field. See the box to the right of the Password field
in the screenshot below.

![passwordfield](/img/product_docs/passwordsecure/9.2/enduser/passwordfield.webp)

Step 2 – If it is not classified as "strong" (green), we strongly recommend using the integrated
password generator to assign a new, secure password: Therefore, just click on the white password
generator icon to the right of the password field. See the Strong button in the screenshot above.

Step 3 – The password generator will open. A secure password is created automatically just click
“Apply”. (Learn more about the possibilities of our password manager in the next chapter.)

![passwordgenerator](/img/product_docs/passwordsecure/9.2/enduser/passwordgenerator.webp)

Step 4 – Now don't forget to replace your password in the target application as well.

**Great side effect!** The access data stored in your browser is no longer up to date and therefore
no longer a danger! You should also think about deleting these passwords from your browser
permanently.

## Create Strong Passwords

The password generator offers three possibilities to create a secure password. To open it, click on
“Create password” and then on the password generator icon right to the password field.

Step 1 – Create a user defined password which gives you the most options such as including and
excluding special characters or defining the length of the password.

![userdefined](/img/product_docs/passwordsecure/9.2/enduser/userdefined.webp)

Step 2 – Create a phonetic password that is easier to pronounce, but still complex.

![phonetic](/img/product_docs/passwordsecure/9.2/enduser/phonetic.webp)

NOTE: This option is best suited for passwords that must be read and typed in, such as operating
machines without an internet connection.

Step 3 – Create a password according to a set password rule in your company: If your IT has already
stored password guidelines for you, you can select them here and simply click on apply.

![rule](/img/product_docs/passwordsecure/9.2/enduser/rule.webp)
